docs: add blog post on revamping the ban-types rule (#11873)
typescript-eslint/typescript-eslint: packages/website/blog/2025-12-31-revamping-the-ban-types-rule.mdx

This post will explain how `@typescript-eslint/ban-types` came to be, its benefits and drawbacks, and the new rules that better handle its targeted functionality.

<!--truncate-->

## A Brief History of `ban-types`

The first version of a _"ban types"_ lint rule came from [TSLint](https://palantir.github.io/tslint), a now-deprecated TypeScript-only linter predating typescript-eslint.
[TSLint's `ban-type` rule](http://palantir.github.io/tslint/rules/ban-types) didn't ban any types by default.
It would only ban types explicitly declared in a project's linting config.

When the rule was ported to `@typescript-eslint/ban-types`, it was changed to additionally lint against known dangerous built-in types by default.
Doing so meant that the `plugin:typescript-eslint/recommended` preset config would lint against them by default.

The drawback of linting against those types by default was that nuanced types -in particular, `{}`- went through the same limited configuration channels as more straightforward types like `Function`.
`{}` in particular has nuance of when it should be used -- which is not describable in a rule configuration format.

> As of typescript-eslint v8, the old `@typescript-eslint/ban-types` rule is now split into several more targeted rules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As of typescript-eslint v8, the old `@typescript-eslint/ban-types` rule has now been split into several more targeted rules.
```

I think this reads better.

The new rule also allows specifying suggestions to surface in editors, for cases when the fix isn't known to be reliable.

Here's an example of configuring the new rule to ban a deprecated API, with a custom message and two suggestions:

```ts
{
  "@typescript-eslint/no-restricted-types": [
    "error",
    {
      "types": {
        "DeprecatedOldAPI": {
          "message": "Use either NewAPIOne or NewAPITwo instead",
          "suggest": ["NewAPIOne", "NewAPITwo"],
        },
      },
    },
  ],
}
```

By acting as a purely user-configured rule, `@typescript-eslint/no-restricted-types`'s behavior falls in line with core ESLint rules like [`no-restricted-imports`](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/no-restricted-imports) and [`no-restricted-syntax`](https://eslint.org/docs/latest/no-restricted-syntax).

See the new [`@typescript-eslint/no-restricted-types`](/rules/no-restricted-types) rule's documentation for more information on how to configure it.

## Closing Thoughts

We'd like to give a big thanks to all the users who gave feedback on the old `@typescript-eslint/ban-types` rule.

> In particular, we'd like to thank [Ryan Cavanaugh](https://github.com/RyanCavanaugh) from the TypeScript team for advising on the rule's design (and for dealing with users frequently sending issues to TypeScript itself on what was actually an overly aggressive lint rule).

Author: I need to check with Ryan (tagging @RyanCavanaugh) about this. On the one hand, Ryan (and presumably other TS folks) have dealt with a lot of inbound because of `ban-type` rules. On the other hand, I don't know how well `no-empty-object-type` (especially still being in the recommended preset) addresses the TS team's feedback. And even if it mostly-to-completely does, is it OK to mention a TS team lead here - does that misleadingly imply approval from the TS team?

I'll ask on Monday, after the holiday weekend is over.
